```@meta
CurrentModule = Maxnet
```

## Installation
Install the latest version of Maxnet.jl by running
```julia
]
add Maxnet
```

## Basic usage
### Fit a model
Use the `maxnet` function to generate a model. `maxnet` takes a `BitVector` as its first arguments, where `true` encodes presences points and `false` background points. As its second argument, it takes any `Tables.jl`-compatible data structure with predictor variables. Categorical variables are treated differently than numeric variables and must be a `CategoricalVector`. Keyword arguments are used to tweak model settings.

`predict` takes a model generated by `maxnet` and any `Tables.jl`-compatible data structure.

Maxnet.jl comes with a sample dataset of presences and background points for the sloth species _Bradypus variegatus_ (see [Philips et al., 2006](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2005.03.026) for details).

The following code fits a maxnet model for _Bradypus variegatus_ with default settings and generates the predicted suitability at each point.

```julia
using Maxnet
p_a, env = Maxnet.bradypus()
bradypus_model = maxnet(p_a, env)
prediction = predict(bradypus_model, env)
```

There are numerous settings that can be tweaked to change the model fit. These are documentated in the documentation for the [`maxnet`](@ref) and [`predict`](@ref) functions.

### Model settings
The two most important settings to change when running Maxnet is the feature classes selected and the regularization factor.

By default, the feature classes selected depends on the number of presence points, see [default_features](@ref). To set them manually, specify the `features` keyword using either a `Vector` of `AbstractFeatureClass`, or a `string`, where `l` represents `LinearFeature` and `CategoricalFeature`, `q` represents `QuadraticFeature`, `p` represents `ProductFeature`, `t` represents `ThresholdFeature` and `h` represents `HingeFeature`. 

For example:
```julia
model1 = maxnet(p_a, env; features = [LinearFeature(), CategoricalFeature(), QuadraticFeature()])
model2 = maxnet(p_a, env; features = "lqph")
```

The regularization multiplier controls how much the algorithms penalizes complex models. A higher regularization multiplier will result in a simpler model with fewer features.

```julia
model3 = maxnet(p_a, env; features = "lqph", regularization_multiplier = 10.0)
```

The number of features selected is shown when a model is printed in the REPL and can be accessed using `complexity`. Here `complexity(model2)` gives `48` and `complexity(model3)` gives `13`.